# Luke 6 1-11

# passage: Jesus is Lord of the [[Sabbath]]

[[passages]]

**related sermons:**

- [[The Habit of Rest]]

### 1

One Sabbath Jesus was going through the grain fields, and his disciples began to pick some heads of grain, rub them in their hands and eat the kernels.

### 2

Some of the Pharisees asked, “Why are you doing what is unlawful on the Sabbath?”

### 3

Jesus answered them, “Have you never read what David did when he and his companions were hungry?

### 4

He entered the house of God, and taking the consecrated bread, he ate what is lawful only for priests to eat. And he also gave some to his companions.”

### 5

Then Jesus said to them, “The Son of Man is Lord of the Sabbath.”

### 6

On another Sabbath he went into the synagogue and was teaching, and a man was there whose right hand was shrivelled.

### 7

The Pharisees and the teachers of the law were looking for a reason to accuse Jesus, so they watched him closely to see if he would heal on the Sabbath.

### 8

But Jesus knew what they were thinking and said to the man with the shrivelled hand, “Get up and stand in front of everyone.”So he got up and stood there.

### 9

Then Jesus said to them, “I ask you, which is lawful on the Sabbath: to do good or to do evil, to save life or to destroy it?”

### 10

He looked around at them all, and then said to the man, “Stretch out your hand.”He did so, and his hand was completely restored.

### 11

But the Pharisees and the teachers of the law were furious and began to discuss with one another what they might do to Jesus.